The War on Weather
Date: 2005-09-05 11:35:00
Label: Amusing Stuff

### Bush Declares War.  Resources No Limit

Following last week's assault on New Orleans by hurricane Katrina, President
Bush Jnr has formally declared war on weather.  In a Whitehouse statement
today, he said that all military resources necessary would be made available
for this new campaign, which was essential for ensuring the country's future
security.

When questioned about the exact nature and purpose of declaring war on an
abstract concept, as opposed to a tangible enemy, he cited the war on
terror.  The comment silenced the critics.

Senior U.S. intelligence agencies have already identified a number of
possible targets.  It is understood that the U.K., a U.S. former ally, is
known to harbour a considerable quantity of weather, and this is likely to
be the U.S.'s first target.  Experts disagree over the likely nature of the
first strike.  Some believe Bush is likely to order a blanket bombing of the
U.K. to ensure all pockets of weather are destroyed, others suggest a more
targeted attack using cruise missiles against the Met. Office.  Critics of
the latter theory argue that the Met. Office have rarely demonstrated any
actual knowledge regarding weather, and such an attack would have little
effect.

The Department of Homeland security has also been searching for alleged
weather training camps, where some of the worst assaults are prepared.  Many
eye witnesses believe these are likely to be found in the hills of Scotland,
although others believe the Lake District is a likely candidate.
Meanwhile back home President Bush has stated that he will take personal
charge of the search, rescue and rebuilding programme, and that he will not
sleep until the task is completed.  New Orleans residents still alive,
however, have not been re-assured.  'Lightning sure does have a funny way of
striking twice' said one elderly lady from the striken area, who only
received her first ration pack (from El Salvador) yesterday, six days after
Katrina struck.
