Peace and quiet at last
Date: 2005-02-21 09:48:54
Label: Blog

Last night I finally worked out how to install my <a
href="http://www.zalman.co.kr/">Zalman</a> VGA fan.  I've now replaced all the
internal fans with Zalman fans, and I've enclosed the hard disks inside acoustic
cases.  I really can't recommend doing this enough; my PC now is whisper quiet;
just sounds a bit like a convection heater on the lowest setting.  Previously
the whines and whooshes were unbearably loud, especially the graphics card.

The graphics card in question is a pre-release GeForce FX5800 I wangled from
NVidia during my games development days.  An excellent little card, if BLOODY
LOUD.  It's one of those cards with the two-speed fans: slow but squeaky during
normal operation and Harrier Jump-Jet taking off during 3D rendering.  The jump-
jet I could handle --- just --- as usually I'd be playing some loud game or
other, but during normal work the whiney squeak of the fan was beginning to
undermine my sanity.

I didn't even discover that the main source of noise in my PC was the graphics
card until recently; I went on a spree of noise-prevention, attacking the CPU,
motherboard fan, case fan, and hard disks first.  Still it was noisy --- only
the highly scientific approach of putting my finger on the graphics card fan to
stop it turning was able to demonstrate that this was the culprit.

So, I headed off to <a href="http://www.quietpc.co.uk/">QuietPC</a> and found
myself a new VGA fan (the Zalman VF700-Cu if you're taking notes).  There's a
lovely Flash animation demonstrating the ease of installing the Zalman onto your
graphics card --- and indeed it is utterly simple and nearly idiot-proof to
attach the new fan and heatsinks onto your GeForce.  Of course, what they
neglect to tell you is it's *nearly impossible* to remove the bloody existing
heatsink and fans!

The GeForce board's heatsinks were extensively pushpin-clamped to the
circuitboard.  I've never had to remove a pushpin before, and I'm sure my
approach of 'wrench it hard until the plastic snaps' is not an IEEE-sanctioned
method.  It did work, however.  This left the fan unit itself.  I carefully
unscrewed everything, but still the thing didn't want to move.  It seems welded
onto the board by some unseen force.  In a fit of frustration, I just stuck on
all the new Zalman heatsinks and left the original fan stuck on.

This turned out to be a **bad** idea.  Windows booted OK, but anything remotely
taxing on the graphics card and the drivers went into panic mode and disabled
acceleration.  Oops...guess those little Zalman heatsinks rely on the Zalman fan
blowing air over them (the NVidia one hardly seemed to move any air, despite the
noise it made!)

So, I yanked out the graphics card again and took it downstairs to where I'd
left all the tools.  In doing so I was holding the thing by the fan unit....and
I noticed it was starting to budge!  Of course!  The bloody thing isn't glued to
the board; the thermal grease is holding it there!  Once the thing's heated up,
the grease became slightly gooey instead of glue-like.  I was able to wrench off
the fan with little problem, to my immense relief.  A few minutes careful
cleaning of the chip with some borrowed nail polish remover and I was away.  The
new fan went on very easily.

Then to the moment of truth --- virtually no noise; a temperature *lower* than
before; no jump-jet during 3d acceleration --- fantastic!  It's been all
worthwhile!  I'm now writing this without feeling like I need loud music to
disguise my PC's sound.  And I've still not risked putting the fan on 'silent'
mode --- it's on 'normal' at the moment.  On silent it'll probably generate
negative amounts of noise or something.
