American in bad maths shocker
Status: Public
Label: Blog
Date: 2007-12-12 13:20

On the way into work this morning I heard an interview with an American diplomat
attending the [Bali climate change conference][bali]. He was being 
pushed on 
why the US
wasn't committing to reducing its emissions. Whatever your thoughts on
this --- I think it's very important --- the thing that struck me was the diplomat's
seeming lack of understanding of maths.

[bali]: http://unfccc.int/2860.php "unlikely to change much"

During the interview the interviewer asked, "Will you commit to slowing the rate
of increase of emissions?", or something very much like that.  The 
diplomat then said no, 
but said they were planning
on doing so. During his reply he likened reducing the rate of increase to zero as
"stopping at an intersection" --- an inaccurate and misleading statement.

Having a zero rate of increase of emissions still means you're emitting huge amounts
of carbon. By definition you'll be emitting the most carbon ever at that point,
and next year you'll still _increase_ your emissions by the largest amount ever.

In maths terms the increase in emissions is a first derivative and the rate of increase
of emissions a second derivative. The best everyday analogue to this is speed and
acceleration --- themselves first and second derivatives of position.

If you imagine emissions as your distance along a motorway, the increase of emissions
is your speed. The rate of increase of your emissions is then your acceleration.
In this context, the US is currently accelerating faster and faster.

If they reduce their rate of increase to zero. this is like them 
stopping accelerating.
They won't have "stopped" as the diplomat would have us believe, but will be hurtling
down the motorway at a constant speed --- the highest speed they attained during their
acceleration.

So, was the diplomat aware of his blunder here? Probably not, though it's well within
the remit of his job to make something unimpressive sound much better than it is.
