Kiwi at last
Date: 2006-11-13 23:25:55
Label: New Zealand Trip

### 5:45pm 13th November

Last real day today, and now we're all parked up at our last camp stop it's all
rather sad.  I really don't want this trip to be over; and really it isn't as we
still have several days in Hong Kong yet.  But nonetheless it does feel like
it's over.

Yesterday we enjoyed our visit to the Moeraki Boulders --- they're really
unusual.  Nobody quite knows why these large spherical balls have been created,
then buried in sedimentary rock to be finally eroded out onto a beach.  Spooky
really, just goes to show what amazing things Nature can throw up from time to
time!



After the boulders we popped to Aoraki, an area to the east of Christchurch.
We'd be recommended visiting there by the camp-site owner in Invercargill ---
we're very glad we popped along as it was gorgeous.  A very french-influenced
quaint port town with some lovely views of the sea.  We did our usual trick of
going into a bar ostensibly "for a drink" and then ending up finishing a bottle
of wine and leaving somewhat drunkenly many hours later!



Today we've been looking around Christchurch.  It's another pretty (for a large
city) place, and we spent a happy few hours wandering around the Botanic Gardens
and the various shopping areas.  It's still just a city though, nothing too
amazing.  We've just parked up; Ness has popped out to see the shops while I've
just emptied the camper van of its various effluvia for the penultimate time.



A quiet night in tonight, then tomorrow we're off to find some kiwi.  About
bloody time, we've been here a month and still not actually seen New Zealand's
iconic flightless bird.  After that we'll be dropping the van off then killing
time until 4am the next morning to check in at the airport.  No sense getting a
hotel for the night; we're just not going to be in it long enough.  Not going to
be too nice a night; but what can you do.  Hopefully there'll be some wireless
internet access at the airport at least.  The last week I've been incommunicado
from the internet; it would seem the south island's behind in internet stakes
with hardly a camp site having internet access let along wireless.  From texts
from my parents it'd appear xania.org is down at the moment too; I hope it's
something easy to fix.
