Whales and Dolphins
Date: 2006-11-02 19:49:39
Label: New Zealand Trip

### 7:20pm 2nd November

My mind has been blown.  The last two days have been something rather special.
Yesterday's whale watching was wonderful, eventually.  A freak couple of
incidents meant our initial 11.45am cruise was cancelled and eventually
rescheduled for 3pm.  The staff were excellent, giving us 20% off and being
extremely apologetic.  We were happy enough, we took the opportunity to pop into
the endless fascinating little 'arty' shops in Kaikoura.

The cruise itself was excellent --- it had full internal A/V with a high-res
plasma screen rendering the boat and surrounding ocean and scenery in full 3D.
I was impressed!  Never mind all the tech, we quickly found our first sperm
whale.



They are utterly gigantic --- around 20 metres, and 60 tons.  It's truly
breathtaking when you see this gigantic mammal rise to the surface, spend 10
minutes or so getting its breath back, plumes of sea spray flying up from its
blow hole, then majestically rise up and dive down, its tail the last thing you
see before it plummets to the ocean floor some 1600 metres down.  Utterly
splendid.  In all had four sightings, two of the same whale.  The guide had an
encyclopaedic knowledge of whales and would regale us with relevant tidbits of
facts during the cruise.  All in all a fantastic trip, and lots of pictures
(admittedly a lot of bits of nondescript sea instead of majestic whale).



After the excitement of the cetaceous observation we needed a drink.  We headed
back into Kaikoura, studiously avoiding the disappointing Italian and instead
venturing into the local pub cum sea restaurant.  As Ness wasn't hungry we
started with a bottle of red wine and just enjoyed the vibe.  Although it wasn't
too busy, there was a nice feeling and people were more than happy to chat.
Most of the way through the bottle we ordered dinner; lamb shank for me and
venison sausages for Ness.  Again, the food was nice but not quite what we'd
hoped; especially me with previous lamb dishes I'd have being superlative.  We
didn't mind though, a live act came onto the tiny little stage and played some
amazing guitar for our listening pleasure.  A few glasses of Kahlua later and
then we realised we had an early start the next morning --- oops!  We staggered
back (me trying to take a long exposure picture of the moon on the way back...in
the cold light of day it was a crazy blurry mess!)



The alarm clock came as an unwelcome disturbance this morning.  With Herculean
effort we crow-barred ourselves out of bed and drover over to the Dolphin
Encounter HQ.  There we grabbed a quick breakfast before donning full wetsuit
gear (scarily tight stuff) and being herded onto a boat in search of Kaikoura's
local population of dusky dolphins.



It didn't take long to find them and we got ready at the back of the boat.  The
klaxon sounded and we slunk into the water --- 12 degrees Centigrade.  Bloody
cold, the first few seconds for everyone was hyperventilating through a snorkel,
not much fun.  But then, head down, look into the water.  Oh my goodness ---
from out of the semi-darkness suddenly one, then two, then many inquisitive
little dolphins swam into view.



I can't articulate what it was like to be, for a few minutes, in their world.
They are truly amazing creatures; graceful and playful, acrobatic and
inquisitive.  Oftentimes if you caught their interest they'd come, then loop
around and around you.  If you maintained eye-contact and span around with them,
they'd stay with you, gradually creeping down and sometimes switching back and
looping under you and going around the other way, playing 'catch me'.  They're
so bloody fast you need to do all you can to keep up the first couple of
seconds.  One time I managed to keep up with one that switched underneath me
though I nearly drowned spinning ever further under until my snorkel end went
under the surface!



By making noises under the water you could get their interest too, and by diving
down.  At one point I dove down and I had two or three around me as I descended
--- though the ultra buoyant wetsuits made it tricky.  By the time I came to the
surface I was puffing and panting like nobody's business.  We had a good twenty
minutes swimming about, playing with the dolphins and generally swimming about
in the ocean before we were summoned back on board to find another, larger pod.
A few minutes boat-ride away and we decanted once again into the freezing
Pacific to be met with more dolphins.  These weren't interested in us sadly,
they sped off and we left them to it.



Safely back on board we dressed, our swimming was over, but we had yet to get
some good photos.  The captain skilfully navigated behind a travelling pod of
dolphins who put on a display of acrobatics and swimming for us.  Truly amazing,
though as with the whales we have a large collection of empty water photographs
again!  One or two seem to have come out ok though!  Our guide was excellent,
telling us all manner of things about the dolphins and their behaviour.  She
turned out to be a Brit (from Weston Super Mare) who had come out to the dolphin
tour pre-uni, been so taken by it she did a degree in marine biology.  Over a
period of years, including a year as a volunteer worker, she finally got a job
doing the dolphin swimming tours.  Amazing, she really loved her job, and we
could totally see why.  Ness and I were grinning like fools all the way back to
the camper van.



Swimming with dolphins was everything I'd hoped it would be and a little more.
It's probably the nearest thing I've ever had to a spiritual experience; it
really felt special for a few brief moments to be in their world, on their
terms, you having to entertain them not the other way around.  Given the chance
I'd do it again in a snap.



We couldn't top such an amazing experience, so somewhat disconsolately we got
back into our snail's home and drove on.  Today's stop off is Westport, on the
western coast.  It was a fair distance through stunning mountain ranges, but we
probably needed the time to get our heads around our amazing experience earlier
in the day.  We've now parked up in the camp site and we're contemplating
dinner.  Tomorrow we have another mainly driving day --- we're off to a glacier
via a few choice stops along the way.
