Compiler Explorer and Microsoft Visual Studio Compilers
Date: 2023-08-17 22:00:00
Status: Draft
Summary: Explaining why Compiler Explorer is not supporting MSVC
Label: Personal, Coding, Blog

This post explains a change that will take place on Compiler Explorer on August 31st: I will be removing support
for the Microsoft Compilers.

**Firstly**: I'm really sorry if this affects you. I appreciate many of you use these compilers and there isn't a
good free online alternative.

This was not an easy decision to make, but I will explain it here. As you may may not know, Microsoft run and
host the MSVC compilers for us. They have a forked version of the Compiler Explorer code, with custom configuration
and their own Kubernetes-based infrastructure for it to run upon, independent of the main CE site. This is currently
not open sourced, and relies on internal Microsoft infrastructure, including custom compilers internal
to the MSVC compiler team.

When you select a MSVC compiler on CE we are actually transparently proxying your request to this Microsoft instance
of CE. This is why -- occasionally -- you might see the MSVC compiler disappear, or stop functioning, independently of
your ability to access the rest of CE.

This has been a good partnership: initially we lacked the skill and desire to run Windows instances ourselves. However,
in January we had to abruptly disable execution on MSVC compilers. This was in response to a
minor security issue discovered in the Windows sandbox. Once the MS security team had realised what was happening --
running an external codebase internally, and one that lets users execute the compiler and
arbitrary code -- things took a turn. Although we had permission, with this kind of
attention bearing down, the only option was to [turn off execution](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Allow-Code-Execution-on-godboltorg-for-/663829)
as a quick placation, while working on a more
permanent solution.

Independently of the execution issue, we have for a while bumped up against issues with the integration: as the
configuration and particular code running on Microsoft were not visible nor editable by us, we on the CE team can't help
or fix issues that crop up. Additionally, doing site updates are complicated by this external service, which may be
running a much older version of the code. While we had great support from our friends on the team within MS, there's
only so much they could do in the limited time they had available.

This, coupled with the execution problem, led us to decide -- along with our friends at MS, that the best course of
action would be for the CE team to spin up and administrate our own Windows instances, and then migrate the MSVC
compilers to our site. This means we could deploy updates, make fixes ourselves and generally be responsible for the
uptime and security of the execution environment ourselves. It also means the team at MS helping us could start
contributing in the "open" by working on the public Github project.

The CE team has done some work on our side: we now host our own Window instances and have come up with an execution
sandbox we're comfortable with. You can see the fruits of this labour when you pick a non-MS Windows-based compiler like
the MinGW `clang`s and `gcc`s: they run on Windows on our infrastructure and support execution.

We've been working with MS on getting access to the MSVC compilers to run in our own environment. Unfortunately, despite
pulling in all the favours I could, I've been unable to get any forward progress.
Microsoft's [EULA](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/license-terms/vs2022-ga-diagnosticbuildtools/) forbids
the kind of usage Compiler Explorer needs, and changing the EULA is not an easy thing for Microsoft. Additionally, as CE
is just "me" and not a legal entity, I can't take the risk of "just" installing anyway and hoping -- too much is on the
line for me.

Behind all this, MS's security team requiring an audit for the service we rely on is coming up soon:
I don't know that we could pass this without a huge effort on our side, if at all. Continuing on this path
would put a lot of pressure on our MS team too, and I don't want that for them. Even if we were able to pass
the audit, the fact that MS could pull the plug again on this service, and ultimately controls the user experience
for the MSVC compilers on a site _I_ am responsible for, is not something I want to continue.

Therefore I've decided the only way to have a hope at forward progress, is to force the issue by disabling MSVC,
ahead of the inevitable removal of the MS service. This will save our friends at MS and us a lot of effort,
and will hopefully
bring a little more urgency to our conversations with Microsoft about the EULA. With our other
proprietary compilers, I've had an email from a product manager or similar confirming they are OK with CE's usage of
their project and won't enforce any EULA clauses. And that's been all I needed to feel comfortable moving forward. I
don't know if that's naïve on my part, though.

Of course all this doesn't come without a price: we lose the Microsoft compilers; though I believe we'd lose them anyway soon enough.

I'd like it to be clear that this is *not the fault of any individual at Microsoft*: everyone I've spoken to and interact
with on a regular basis has tried their honest best to do what's right for the project, and I'm incredibly thankful for
their time and commitment over the years. Sometimes, it's just hard to effect this kind of change in a large
organisation, and I understand that. It doesn't make it any less frustrating though.

If you have questions or want to express your feelings to the CE team about this decision, you can find us on the
[Compiler Explorer Discord](https://discord.gg/B5WacA7).
