Blasts from the past
Date: 2006-08-05 12:09:02
Label: Blog

Thanks to Rich Talbot-Watkins pointing me in the right direction I've been
reminiscing about old BBC games on the <a
href="http://www.stairwaytohell.com/">Stairway to Hell</a> website.  There,
amongst other things, is a load of old BBC games, including some Rich and I
wrote when we were kids.  Curious to see what we'd been up to I loaded the disk
image of <a
href="http://www.stairwaytohell.com/bbc/archive/diskimages/Unreleased/Frogman-demo.zip">Frogman</a> (yes, unimaginitive name as ever) up directly into <a
href="http://www.editpadpro.com">EditPad</a> and had a sift through the
text...then I found this...

"Congratulations on your fine choice in games ...... FROGMAN was written and
produced by Matthew Godbolt and Richard Talbot-Watkins. Yes, this is one of
those cunning scrolltexts featured on so many of those Archie games. Well now is
the time for Beeb owners to unite and fight for processor equality! ......
Hellos and thankyous are due to the following (in no particular order):
Our families (for putting up with us), our friends at Howard Of Effingham Sixth
Form College: Dave, Richard, Paul, Richard (a different one), Richard (another
different one), Chris, Manners, Gatford, Moffat, Ben, Anita, Sarah, Sue, Katie,
Polly, Catherine, Katherine, Hayley (dungarees), Alison, Pam (spam), Jane (my
legs are crossed --- MG), Ben, Peers, and the rest of you. Cheers to Dominic for
playtesting the game, and for the loan of his Beeb. Teachers (yick) to be danke-
ed include : Mr (shhhh!) Bowes, Mrs (snooore) Whyman, Mr (northern) Beety, Mr
(if a cow, it gives milk, then you can let it kick you. If the cow it doesn't
give milk, then you cannot stand it to kick you (!?!)) Asadullah, Mr (WHILE ...
DO) Maguire, Mr (balding slaphead) Everson, Mr (irrelevant stories) Laver, Miss
(oh, black clothes again, eh?) Myers, Mrs (whacko) Jackson, Mr (sarcastic voice)
Eccleston, Mr (head teecha) Marchant, Mrs (colour co-ordination) Palmer, Mrs
(yeees) Jeffery, Mr (puppies?!) Payne and the rest of the underpaid, overworked
(or should that be overpaid, underworked?) staff. Wibbles are also due to these
esteemed thingies, without which this superb game would not have graced the
populace at large: Nescafe and PG tips for the huge amounts of caffeine
required, Acorn Computers Ltd for such a wonderful range of computers, BBC Acorn
User (esp. the Daves) for the dosh and the confidence to complete this game,
Bray, Dickens and Holmes for the most useful book in the Cosmiverse (Advanced
User Guide), Olivetti for the printer, Ferguson and Philips for TVs, Casio and
Yamaha for the music keyboards, Sharp and Philips for the CD players and other
sound blasting equipment, Metallica, Ozric Tentacles, Genesis, Holst (yep, we
mean it), Black Sabbath, Faith No More, and the other bands which have kept us
alive during the bleakest system crashes, Dean R. Koontz, Stephen King, Stephen
W. Hawking, Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett, Lenny Henry, The Word, Police Squad,
Tomorrow's World, The Mary Whitehouse Experience, Mary Whitehouse (not), and the
other billion forms of entertainment which have kept us sane(ish). Thanks also
(for no particular reason) to lightbulbs, belly-button fluff, top-loading VCRs,
fish, radiators, NASA, electrons, neutrons and protons (but not positrons),
pewter, phosphofructokinase, black holes, those little bits of bent metal that
you have to work out how to disentangle, ear wax, Kevlar body armour, Einstein
and his General Theory of Relativity, YS (fnar), Rudolph T.R.N. Reindeer,
Donner, Blitzen and Co., Jiminy Cricket, haemoglobin, a boiled sweet, the ozone
layer, elevators, fish (again), the ancient Aztecs, Post It (TM) Notes, Jeremy
Beadle (not), germanium, silicon, iron, tungsten, rubidium, argon, krypton and
newtonium, Phylum Chordata (fish), Terry Wogan (ahem), F.W. De Klerk, flushing
lavatories and the squirting flower. Things that get a no-thank-you include
luminous toilet paper, Narcissisism, speling tests, GCSE exams (done), A levels
(to be done at), doctorates (we'll be lucky), Premiership of the Republic of
Iceland, itching powder, Finger-seeking Superglue 3 weapons, New Clear Arms,
Potassium permanganate, arsenic, sulphate, nitrous emissions, radioactive chair
legs, mathematics, the Government, the Opposition, politics, sea-dwelling higher
vertebrates (I thought you liked fish?), sexual deviations involving sheep (Mr
Bowes take note), tortoise molesting (Hale + Pace take note), the digeredoo (or
whatever), Rudolph Hess, Home Alone 2, Pritt Stick, the blue tack stuck to MG's
carpet, opulent aardvarks, trestle tables, Numismatical inadequacy, Edd the
Duck, Gordon T. Gopher, Gordon Bennett, the wasp's nest outside RTW's room,
hayfever, asthma, eczema, cancer, AIDS, the prostrate gland, the wibbly thing at
the back of your throat, homelessness and finallyish exploding novelty golf
balls. And now for some of those little puzzles in life that wind you up
something chronic if you can't solve them --- Why do dogs always lick their
&lt;censored&gt; in full view of the family during dinner? Who was the first
bloke (or blokess) to test a parachute? Why are there 24 hours in a day? How
many fairies can dance on the head of a pin? Who cares? Why do they care? ...
And for a little brainteaser (courtesy of YS) --- Part a) What is the record
time for a London Marathon run? b) How many people ran in the 1991 Marathon? c)
Name them. (ahahahahahahahhahaahaahahahaahahaa) Well I thought it was funny.
Anyway, I've just realised that this file is bigger than the main code. Oh for
an Archimedes (hint to Father Christmas). Well Rick's got one, so why can't I
have one? Money! The only reason this game was finished was for the though of
lots of little green notes making their way towards my perpetually inadequate
bank account. Enough heart-rending stories, I'm off to watch Roseanne. (P.S. RTW
wishes to inform the general public that that sentence was prepared without his
prior consent and that he has never, and will never, like and/or watch the TV
Programme Roseanne. Thanx)"

Well I never, there's a host of names and things I never thought I'd see
again...As it happens Father Christmas *did* bring me an Archimedes that year,
so we never did finish the game.

Note to anyone wanting to try the game: You'll need a decent emulator like Tom
Seddon's <a href="http://www.modelb.bbcmicro.com/">Model B</a> in order to play
it due to the awkward protection system.  <a
href="http://b-em.bbcmicro.com/">B-Em</a> also runs it apparently, but I've not
yet been able to get it working.
